Update HTTP guide (#35859)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/http.md

# Communicating with backend services using HTTP

Most front-end applications need to communicate with a server over the HTTP protocol, in order to download or upload data and accesss other back-end services.
Angular provides a simplified client HTTP API for Angular applications, the `HttpClient` service class in `@angular/common/http`.

> Modern browsers support two different APIs for making HTTP requests: the `XMLHttpRequest` interface and the `fetch()` API. `HttpClient` is built on the `XMLHttpRequest` interface exposed by browsers. Major features include:

Author: @aikidave This is a policy decision - do we say nothing about the implementation ?

### Making a PUT request

An app will send a PUT request to completely replace a resource with updated data.
The following `ItemsService` example is just like the POST example.

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/items/items.service.ts"
  region="updateItem"
  header="app/items/items.service.ts (updateItem)">
</code-example>

> For the reasons [explained above](#always-subscribe), the caller (`ItemsComponent.update()` in this case) must `subscribe()` to the observable returned from the `HttpClient.put()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the reasons [explained above](#always-subscribe), the caller, `ItemsComponent.update()`, must `subscribe()` to the observable returned from the `HttpClient.put()`
```

in order to initiate the request.

### Adding and updating headers

Many servers require extra headers for save operations.
For example, a server might require an authorization token, or "Content-Type" header to explicitly declare the MIME type of the request body.

> ##### Adding headers

Reviewer: FYI: I get very edgy when I see anything past a level 3 heading. Memories of editors past...

> The `ItemsService` defines such headers in an `httpOptions` object that will be passed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ItemsService` defines such headers in an `httpOptions` object that are passed
```

to every `HttpClient` save method.

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/items/items.service.ts"
  region="http-options"
  header="app/items/items.service.ts (httpOptions)">
</code-example>

##### Updating headers

You can't directly modify the existing headers within the previous options
object because instances of the `HttpHeaders` class are immutable.
Use the `set()` method instead, to return a clone of the current instance with the new changes applied.

The following example shows how, when an old token has expired, you can update the authorization header before making the next request.

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/items/items.service.ts"
   region="update-headers" linenums="false">
</code-example>

{@a url-params}

## Configuring HTTP URL parameters

Use the `HttpParams` class with the `params` request option to add URL query strings in your `HttpRequest`.

The following example, the `searchItems()` method queries for items whose names contain the search term.

> Start by importing `HttpParams` class.

Reviewer: Move this sentence to a new paragraph.
```suggestion
Start by importing `HttpParams` class.
```

<code-example hideCopy language="typescript">
import {HttpParams} from "@angular/common/http";
</code-example>

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/items/items.service.ts"
  region="searchItems" linenums="false">
</code-example>

> If there is a search term, the code constructs an options object with an HTML URL-encoded search parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a search term, the code constructs an `options` object with an HTML URL-encoded search parameter.
```

Should we use some sort of indicator for the word `options`, here, as I've indicated? Up for debate.

Author: Sadly, the options object is a generic JS object, not an interface. 
Defining an `HttpOptions` interface would be a long overdue code cleanup, which would greatly simplify and improve the API documentation for `HttpClient`.

If the term is "cat", for example, the GET request URL would be `api/items?name=cat`.

The `HttpParams` object is immutable. If you need to update the options, save the returned value of the `.set()` method.

You can also create HTTP parameters directly from a query string by using the `fromString` variable:

<code-example hideCopy language="typescript">
const params = new HttpParams({fromString: 'name=foo'});
</code-example>

{@a intercepting-requests-and-responses}
## Intercepting requests and responses

> _HTTP Interception_ is a major feature of `@angular/common/http`.

Reviewer: Just throwing this out there. Why is this sentence needed? Do users care if something is a major feature of something? Or do they care what that something does? I would argue the latter.

With interception, you declare _interceptors_ that inspect and transform HTTP requests from your application to a server.

> The same interceptors may also inspect and transform a server's responses on their way back to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same interceptors can also inspect and transform a server's responses on their way back to the application.
```

You cannot change the order or remove interceptors later.
If you need to enable and disable an interceptor dynamically, you'll have to build that capability into the interceptor itself.

{@a interceptor-events}

### Handling interceptor events

> While most other `HttpClient` methods return observables of `HttpResponse<any>`, the `intercept()` and `handle()` methods to return observables of `HttpEvent<any>`.

Reviewer 2: This rephrazing is confusing, because `intercept()` and `handle()` are not methods of `HttpClient`. They are methods of `HttpInterceptor` and `HttpHandler` respectively.

> While most other `HttpClient` methods return observables of `HttpResponse<any>`, the `intercept()` and `handle()` methods to return observables of `HttpEvent<any>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While most other `HttpClient` methods return observables of `Http**Response**<any>`, the `intercept()` and `handle()` methods return observables of `Http**Event**<any>`.
```
I don't know if the bold will work here, but it seems like distinguishing between HttpResponse and HttpEvent might be easily missed. Also fixed a minor grammar issue.

Author: I have requested bold inside code a number of times, but I'm pretty sure nobody remembers.

The `HttpResponse` class itself is actually an event, whose type is `HttpEventType.Response`.
A single HTTP request can, however, generate multiple events of other types, including upload and download progress events.

Many interceptors are only concerned with the outgoing request and return the event stream from `next.handle()` without modifying it.
Some interceptors, however, need to examine and modify the response from `next.handle()`; these operations can see all of these events in the stream.

{@a immutability}

Although interceptors are capable of modifying requests and responses,
the `HttpRequest` and `HttpResponse` instance properties are `readonly`,

> rendering them largely immutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rendering them largely immutable.
```

I suggest linking this to the _Mutating a request body_ section.

Author: I don't thing that works, it's actually part of this same section, which talks about other kinds of mutation first.

The `clone()` method's hash argument allows you to mutate specific properties of the request while copying the others.

> #### Mutating a request body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Modifying a request body
```
Mutating seems too technical.

  req.body.name = req.body.name.trim(); // bad idea!
```

> If you must mutate the request body, use the method shown in the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you must modify the request body, follow these steps.
```

1. Copy the body and make your change in the copy.
1. Clone the request object, using its `clone()` method.
1. Replace the clone's body with the modified copy.

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/http-interceptors/trim-name-interceptor.ts"
  region="excerpt"
  header="app/http-interceptors/trim-name-interceptor.ts (excerpt)">
</code-example>

#### Clearing the request body in a clone

Sometimes you need to clear the request body rather than replace it.
To do this, set the cloned request body to `null`.

> Note that if you set the cloned request body to `undefined`, Angular assumes you intend to leave the body as is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert is-helpful">

If you set the cloned request body to `undefined`, Angular assumes you intend to leave the body as is.

</div>
```

* Caching behavior; for example, `If-Modified-Since`
* XSRF protection

### Using interceptors for logging

> Because interceptors can process the request and response _together_, they can do things like time and log an entire HTTP operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because interceptors can process the request and response _together_, they can perform tasks like time and log an entire HTTP operation.
```

Neither `tap` nor `finalize` touch the values of the observable stream returned to the caller.

{@a caching}

### Using interceptors for caching

Interceptors can handle requests by themselves, without forwarding to `next.handle()`.

For example, you might decide to cache certain requests and responses to improve performance.
You can delegate caching to an interceptor without disturbing your existing data services.

The `CachingInterceptor` in the following example demonstrates this approach.

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/http-interceptors/caching-interceptor.ts"
  region="v1"
  header="app/http-interceptors/caching-interceptor.ts)">
</code-example>

* The `isCachable()` function determines if the request is cachable.
In this sample, only GET requests to the npm package search api are cachable.

* If the request is not cachable, the interceptor simply forwards the request
to the next handler in the chain.

* If a cachable request is found in the cache, the interceptor returns an `of()` _observable_ with
the cached response, by-passing the `next` handler (and all other interceptors downstream).

* If a cachable request is not in cache, the code calls `sendRequest()`.

> This function creates a [request clone](#immutability) without headers (because the npm API forbids them).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function creates a [request clone](#immutability) without headers, because the npm API forbids them.
```

> It forwards the clone of the request to `next.handle()` which ultimately calls the server and returns the server's response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function then forwards the clone of the request to `next.handle()` which ultimately calls the server and returns the server's response.
```

{@a send-request}
<code-example
  path="http/src/app/http-interceptors/caching-interceptor.ts"
  region="send-request">
</code-example>

Note how `sendRequest()` intercepts the response on its way back to the application.

> It  pipes the response through the `tap()` operator, whose callback adds the response to the cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method pipes the response through the `tap()` operator, whose callback adds the response to the cache.
```

The revised `CachingInterceptor` sets up a server request
whether there's a cached value or not,
using the same `sendRequest()` method described [above](#send-request).
The `results$` observable makes the request when subscribed.

* If there's no cached value, the interceptor returns `results$`.

* If there is a cached value, the code _pipes_ the cached response onto
`results$`, producing a recomposed observable that emits twice,
the cached response first (and immediately), followed later
by the response from the server.
Subscribers see a sequence of two responses.

{@a report-progress}

## Tracking and showing request progress

Sometimes applications transfer large amounts of data and those transfers can take a long time.
File uploads are a typical example.

> Give the users a better experience by providing feedback on the progress of such transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can give the users a better experience by providing feedback on the progress of such transfers.
```

To make a request with progress events enabled, you can create an instance of `HttpRequest`
with the `reportProgress` option set true to enable tracking of progress events.

<code-example
  path="http/src/app/uploader/uploader.service.ts"
  region="upload-request"
  header="app/uploader/uploader.service.ts (upload request)">
</code-example>

<div class="alert is-important">

> Every progress event triggers change detection, so only turn them on if you need to report progress in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip**: Every progress event triggers change detection, so only turn them on if you need to report progress in the UI.
```

> When using [`HttpClient.request()`](api/common/http/HttpClient#request) with an HTTP method, configure with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using [`HttpClient.request()`](api/common/http/HttpClient#request) with an HTTP method, configure the method with
```

as happens in the `search()` method.

Rather than forward every `searchText` value directly to the injected `PackageSearchService`,
the code in `ngOnInit()` pipes search values through three operators, so that a search value reaches the service only if it's a new value and the user has stopped typing.

* `debounceTime(500)`&emdash;Wait for the user to stop typing (1/2 second in this case).

* `distinctUntilChanged()`&emdash;Wait until the search text changes.

* `switchMap()`&emdash;Send the search request to the service.

The code sets `packages$` to this re-composed `Observable` of search results.
The template subscribes to `packages$` with the [AsyncPipe](api/common/AsyncPipe)
and displays search results as they arrive.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

See [Using interceptors to request multiple values](#cache-refresh) for more about the `withRefresh` option.

</div>

### Using the *switchMap()* operator

> The `switchMap()` operator takes a function argument that returns an `Observable`.

Reviewer: I'm still not sure what this method does for me. Can we update this paragraph to explain the benefit to the user?

Author: Um, what is the benefit?
